[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: We've now seen how
to install a global tool for node.
That's what that -g means.
It means I wanna be able to use
this from anywhere on my computer.
That's the last one I'm
going to install that way.
Everything else is going
to be installed locally.
So it's only gonna be available in
very small parts of your computer.
In this particular case, it's gonna
be available in our little apps.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, we kinda went
through that, that -g, means it's global.
All right.
So, [COUGH] we just built our first and
last app using just vanilla node, why?
It's actually really hard
to write just plain node.
As in like it's kind of beyond me even.
Or at least I haven't ever tried.
So, like jQuery there's something
called Express that exists for node.
Express is certainly not the only
framework that you can use, but
it's certainly the most common one.
And it's just like a design to
make writing a node server like
a billion times easier.
Kinda like I said a billion,
maybe a trillion.
Okay, so go back to your Sublime.
>> Brian Holt: I don't
know if you've noticed but
I'm certainly not prone to hyperbole,
okay so we're gonna be in Express okay.
>> Brian Holt: So, come back to your
little command line right here.
We're gonna get out of here so
I'm gonna hit cd..
We're back in our node exercises and
we can say, okay and
now we need to go to express, okay.
Here, we're gonna type npm install,
very key here do not put -g.
I'm gonna repeat that,
do not put -g express, okay.
Just like that, npm install express.
>> Brian Holt: Again, much is going to
happen if you get permission errors again
which hopefully at this time you will not,
then go ahead and
throw sudo before that again.
>> Brian Holt: But
that should look something like that.
That look good for people.
>> Speaker 3: Can you show
that command line again?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so
it's just gonna be npn install express.
>> Brian Holt: If you're lazy like me,
you can actually shorten this
down to npn i and that works too.
>> Speaker 3: Why wouldn't
you install that globally?
>> Brian Holt: There's an idea,
a philosophy in node.
That everything should be totally and
completely self contained.
So if I have three apps,
all of them are using Express,
they're not necessarily gonna use
the same version of Express cuz
Express is actually
updated pretty regularly.
And so I don't wanna have to update
all of my apps just because I wanna
update one of them.
So they each can carry
their own dependencies.
>> Speaker 3: So that means going
in every private directory and
you have to expressly install Express.
>> Brian Holt: Which is, again,
it's something you do once, when you start
a project, and then you work on project
for six months, you don't care, right?
>> Brian Holt: I'm a huge proponent of
this, so, I think it's a great thing.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
cool we got Express going now?
>> Speaker 3: Were you in a different
folder or was it the same?
Folder?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so
we're in the Express folder now.
>> Speaker 2: One question is
when do you use the save play?
>> Brian Holt: We'll talk about it.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Coming up.
So we were in Basic, right?
We have now moved on to Express.
So I got into the Express directory.
>> Brian Holt: You should now see
this little node_modules folder.
We didn't create that, but
guess what, surprise it's there.
That's where npn keeps all
the code that it brings in.
In fact, if you look in node_modules,
you'll see that there's
a folder called express.
If you look in express, you'll see that
it has a lot of code that to look at it,
like you don't have to, but it's there.
>> Brian Holt: Feeling good?
>> Brian Holt: So,
let's go back to our code here.
We now are in Express.
We're looking at the app.js
that's inside of Express, okay.
So you notice the first thing rather than
requiring HTTP, we're requiring Express.
So again to [COUGH] reiterate how
node is going to work with this,
you're gonna say give me Express.
It's first gonna go see, do I node,
personally do I own
anything called Express?
I don't.
So I'm going to go look at his
externally installed npn type stuff and
see if it's out there.
It's gonna find Express in there, and
it's gonna bring that into our
project here in this express variable.
So that we we've installed npn,
through npn Express,
it's now available to us
because we installed it.
So now we have Express right here,
and here,
we're going to create an instance of
Express using this Express function.
If it looks kind of weird.
It is kind of an interesting pattern but
anyway.
This is the app here is now how we
are going to operate our web server, okay.
So, you remember how we were talking
about HTTP verbs like get and post?
We're gonna say every time
that someone calls a get,
which is what this get right here means,
on hello.txt,
this req and
res should look familiar to you, right?
Please send them Hello World, okay.
This is essentially the same app that
we wrote before, but now on Express.
>> Brian Holt: Questions about this?
>> Brian Holt: So again, well, not again.
For the first time, rather.
Server, is an instance of the app that
we've created, we've essentially setup
the entire app right here and
then we get the server running here and
say app.listen, and that's when
actually the server starts going.
If we took this part out right here,
we essentially configure a server and
then it would never run.
This part you're essentially saying,
I've configured everything I want to now.
Please actually start doing your thing.
>> Brian Holt: Cool?
Should we actually see what it does?
All right, so.
Nodemon app.js.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, started running.
>> Brian Holt: And then we're gonna go
check out what it does in the browser.
>> Brian Holt: So first of all we have to
go to hello.txt because that's what we set
it up as.
Now we see a Hello World here.
What will be interesting, try doing it
with something else or just like an empty.
If we do this,
it's going to say cannot GET.
Or if you go to this,
it's gonna say cannot GET that.
Let's talk about why for just a second.
That pattern of giving, essentially
throwing up anytime someone asks for
anything is like hey, I want this and
you say, no you get this.
And it just every request given that.
We actually wanna route specific
things to specific places, right?
Like you want your index to be
different than your about page,
then you want the about like contact page,
right?
You wanna have different
routes on your web server.
And that's what this makes
this really easy, right?
And we just say any time they
go to mywebsite/hello.txt,
serve them Hello World.
>> Brian Holt: We follow,
does that make sense?
You can change it to be something else.
It can be like, thing.txt and then if you
saved it, restarts, come back over here.
thing.txt, now it's being served there.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, makes sense?
It's just like another way
of doing the same thing.
>> Speaker 3: Is the structure then that
you would have a lot of get functions for
all the different pages and
at the end you would have the server?
>> Brian Holt: Yep, that's really good,
in fact that's the structure that
we'll see at least
throughout our class today.
And we'll actually even get into posting,
which will be different than a get, right?